06032022.md, before:

0. Resources:

- Link challenge: [cmdchallenge](https://cmdchallenge.com/)
- Link answer: [cmdchallenge-answer](https://github.com/HyperSine/cmdchallenge.com)

1. Clone the given repository with specific port:

```git
git clone ssh://<username>@mydomain.com:[port]/<username>/<repo>
```

- Note: that the port number should be there without the square brackets: `[]`

2. Add this configuration to `.gitconfig` file to change the default port number for ssh to any git-remote server:

```gitconfig
  Host mydomain.com
    User git
    Port 12345
```

3. NOTE: all the square bracket was not needed in the real life attendance.

- Standard syntax:

```git
git clone ssh://[user@]host.xz[:port]/path/to/repo.git/
```

- `scp` like syntax: (normal case)

```git
git clone[user@]host.xz:path/to/repo.git
```

4. Bash command tip and tricks:

- Returns list of all files name that're containing the \<pattern\>

```bash
grep -Ril <pattern>
```

- Options: `-h = no-file-name`, `-i = ignore-case`

```bash
grep -ihr <pattern>
```

- NOTE: `egrep` search for string pattern, normal grep without option `-e/-E` none, `-o = only-matching`,
  also available in `git bash`.

```bash
grep -ro "<regex_pattern>"
egrep -ro "<regex_pattern>"
```

- NOTE: must put option regex -e/-E in the last positions in the flags list

```bash
grep -<options>e/E <regex_pattern>
```

- Get the list file name contain the matching pattern: `grep` can understand `three` versions of regex := `{basic, extended, perls}`.

> - `-o`: only matching.
> - `-r`: recursively.
> - `-H`: with filename.
> - `-e`: searching with POSIX regex.
> - `-E`: extended regex, interpret pattern as an extended regex.

```bash
grep -roHE "^[.0-9]\*" | cut -d: -f 1 | wc -l
```

- `tail`

```bash
tail -5 * || tail -5 < * || tail -n5 \* || tail --lines 5 <file_name>
```

- `touch`

```bash
touch <file_name> || :>/> <file_name> || nul/null > <file_name>
```

- `mkdir`

```bash
mkdir -p tmp/files || mkdir tmp{,/files} || mkdir tmp/{,files}
```

- `ln`

```bash
ln -sf <path_to_file>
ln -s
ln -sr
```

- `**`

  > - Double Asterisk (\*\*) matches zero or more characters across multiple segments.
  > - It is used for globbing files that are in nested directories.
  > - Example: `Tests/\*\*/\*.js` => The glob will match the files: `Tests/HelloWorld.js`, `Tests/UI/HelloWorld.js`, `Tests/UI/Feature1/HelloWorld.js`.

- `cat`

```bash
cat <file_name> | sort
```

- `sed` (NOTE: replace ';' with newline character)

  - `-i` = Replace all occurrences of a string in a file, overwriting the file (-i = in-place).
  - `-r` = Replace all occurrences of an extended regular expression in a file.
  - `-e` = Apply multiple find-replace expressions to a file.

```bash
sed -ir 's/;/\\n/g' <file_name>
```

- Challenge [List files starting with a number](https://cmdchallenge.com/#/files_starting_with_a_number):

```bash
find . -type f -printf "%f\n" | grep ^[0-9]
find . -type f -iname "^[0-9]{1}.*"
```

- Challenge [Print Nth line from file](https://cmdchallenge.com/#/print_nth_line)

```bash
sed "25 !d" faces.txt
sed "25q;d" faces.txt
sed -n "25p" faces.txt
sed -n "25,25p" faces.txt
sed -n "25{p;q}" faces.txt

awk "FNR==25" faces.txt
awk "NR==25" faces.txt
```

```bash
# NOTE:
# - `sed -n` := `sed --silent/--quiet`.
# Retrieve file content from specific position until it reach the end:
sed -n "25,\$p" test.txt
# Equals with this version when using single quotes:
sed --quiet '25,$p' test.txt
```

Commit message:

script: Unambiguous sed string script operand to edit input text

06032022.md, after:

0. Resources:

- Link challenge: [cmdchallenge](https://cmdchallenge.com/)
- Link answer: [cmdchallenge-answer](https://github.com/HyperSine/cmdchallenge.com)

1. Clone the given repository with specific port:

```git
git clone ssh://<username>@mydomain.com:[port]/<username>/<repo>
```

- Note: that the port number should be there without the square brackets: `[]`

2. Add this configuration to `.gitconfig` file to change the default port number for ssh to any git-remote server:

```gitconfig
  Host mydomain.com
    User git
    Port 12345
```

3. NOTE: all the square bracket was not needed in the real life attendance.

- Standard syntax:

```git
git clone ssh://[user@]host.xz[:port]/path/to/repo.git/
```

- `scp` like syntax: (normal case)

```git
git clone[user@]host.xz:path/to/repo.git
```

4. Bash command tip and tricks:

- Returns list of all files name that're containing the \<pattern\>

```bash
grep -Ril <pattern>
```

- Options: `-h = no-file-name`, `-i = ignore-case`

```bash
grep -ihr <pattern>
```

- NOTE: `egrep` search for string pattern, normal grep without option `-e/-E` none, `-o = only-matching`,
  also available in `git bash`.

```bash
grep -ro "<regex_pattern>"
egrep -ro "<regex_pattern>"
```

- NOTE: must put option regex -e/-E in the last positions in the flags list

```bash
grep -<options>e/E <regex_pattern>
```

- Get the list file name contain the matching pattern: `grep` can understand `three` versions of regex := `{basic, extended, perls}`.

> - `-o`: only matching.
> - `-r`: recursively.
> - `-H`: with filename.
> - `-e`: searching with POSIX regex.
> - `-E`: extended regex, interpret pattern as an extended regex.

```bash
grep -roHE "^[.0-9]\*" | cut -d: -f 1 | wc -l
```

- `tail`

```bash
tail -5 * || tail -5 < * || tail -n5 \* || tail --lines 5 <file_name>
```

- `touch`

```bash
touch <file_name> || :>/> <file_name> || nul/null > <file_name>
```

- `mkdir`

```bash
mkdir -p tmp/files || mkdir tmp{,/files} || mkdir tmp/{,files}
```

- `ln`

```bash
ln -sf <path_to_file>
ln -s
ln -sr
```

- `**`

  > - Double Asterisk (\*\*) matches zero or more characters across multiple segments.
  > - It is used for globbing files that are in nested directories.
  > - Example: `Tests/\*\*/\*.js` => The glob will match the files: `Tests/HelloWorld.js`, `Tests/UI/HelloWorld.js`, `Tests/UI/Feature1/HelloWorld.js`.

- `cat`

```bash
cat <file_name> | sort
```

- `sed` (NOTE: replace ';' with newline character)

  - `-i` = Replace all occurrences of a string in a file, overwriting the file (-i = in-place).
  - `-r` = Replace all occurrences of an extended regular expression in a file.
  - `-e` = Apply multiple find-replace expressions to a file.

```bash
sed -ir 's/;/\\n/g' <file_name>
```

- Challenge [List files starting with a number](https://cmdchallenge.com/#/files_starting_with_a_number):

```bash
find . -type f -printf "%f\n" | grep ^[0-9]
find . -type f -iname "^[0-9]{1}.*"
```

- Challenge [Print Nth line from file](https://cmdchallenge.com/#/print_nth_line)

```bash
sed "25 !d" faces.txt
sed "25q;d" faces.txt
sed -n "25p" faces.txt
sed -n "25,25p" faces.txt

# NOTE: `[0|1|2addr]` representing zero, one or two addresses.
# The maxium number of permissible addresses/positions (all/start/end) for each function/script is indicated as the previous sentence.
# - `[2addr]p` := Write the pattern space to standard output.
# - `[1addr]q` := Branch to the end of the script and quit without starting a new cycle.
sed -n "25{p;q}" faces.txt

awk "FNR==25" faces.txt
awk "NR==25" faces.txt
```

```bash
# NOTE:
# - `sed -n` := `sed --silent/--quiet`.
# Retrieve file content from specific position until it reach the end:
sed -n "25,\$p" test.txt
# Equals with this version when using single quotes:
sed --quiet '25,$p' test.txt
```
