07122022.md, before:

1. More `grep` to dive in:

- `grep -o`: -o ~ --only-matching, print only the matched parts of a matching line, with each matched part on a separate output line.
- `grep -A <NUM>`: -A ~ --after-context, print `<NUM>` lines of trailing context after matching lines.
- `grep -B <NUM>`: -A ~ --before-context, print `<NUM>` lines of trailing context before matching lines.
- `grep -C <NUM>`: -A ~ --context, print `<NUM>` lines of out put context.

```bash
man ascii | grep -A 20 Tables
```

2. Services list of `SysV` and `systemd`:

- `SysV` services only (does not include the native `systemd` services):

```bash
chkconfig
```

- `systemd` services:

  + List all services:

  ```bash
  systemctl list-unit-files
  systemctl list-units
  ```

  + List all services enabled on particular target: `[target]` can be found in the output of `systemctl list-unit-files`

  ```bash
  systemctl list-dependencies [target]
  systemctl list-dependencies sysinit.target
  ```

- Some more `systemctl` options utilities:

```bash
systemctl list-jobs --all
systemctl list-sockets --all
systemctl list-timers --all
```

- The function `splitPath` is using only for current user profile, to see all system path, using:

```bash
systemd-path
```

3. List of `Escape Sequence`:

```
+===================================================================+
| Escape Sequence | Unicode Character | Description                 |
+=================+===================+=============================+
|        \b       |       U+0008      | BS backspace                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \t       |       U+0009      | HT horizontal tab           |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \n       |       U+000A      | LF line feed                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \f       |       U+000C      | FF form feed                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \r       |       U+000D      | CR carriage return          |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \"       |       U+0022      | quotation mark              |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \'       |       U+0027      | apostrophe                  |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \/       |       U+002F      | slash (solidus)             |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \\       |       U+005C      | backslash (reverse          |
|                 |                   | solidus)                    |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|      \uXXXX     |       U+XXXX      | unicode character           |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
```

4. Process management:

- All of these signal process interaction command can be found in:

```bash
$ man 7 signal

Sending a signal
  The following system calls and library functions allow the caller to send a signal:

  raise(3)          Sends a signal to the calling thread.
  kill(2)           Sends a signal to a specified process, to all members of a specified process group, or to all processes on the system.
  killpg(2)         Sends a signal to all of the members of a specified process group.
  pthread_kill(3)   Sends a signal to a specified POSIX thread in the same process as the caller.
  tgkill(2)         Sends a signal to a specified thread within a specific process.  (This is the system call used to implement pthread_kill(3).)
  sigqueue(3)       Sends a real-time signal with accompanying data to a specified process.
```

- `ps` report snapshot of the current processes:

```bash
ps -aux
ps -ax -o %U%p%n%c
```

- Check connection to specific IP in Powershell:

```pwsh
telnet <IPv4> <Port>
tnc <Private IP> -port <Port number>
```

Commit message:

chore: `netstat` to determine port in use

07122022.md, after:

1. More `grep` to dive in:

- `grep -o`: -o ~ --only-matching, print only the matched parts of a matching line, with each matched part on a separate output line.
- `grep -A <NUM>`: -A ~ --after-context, print `<NUM>` lines of trailing context after matching lines.
- `grep -B <NUM>`: -A ~ --before-context, print `<NUM>` lines of trailing context before matching lines.
- `grep -C <NUM>`: -A ~ --context, print `<NUM>` lines of out put context.

```bash
man ascii | grep -A 20 Tables
```

2. Services list of `SysV` and `systemd`:

- `SysV` services only (does not include the native `systemd` services):

```bash
chkconfig
```

- `systemd` services:

  + List all services:

  ```bash
  systemctl list-unit-files
  systemctl list-units
  ```

  + List all services enabled on particular target: `[target]` can be found in the output of `systemctl list-unit-files`

  ```bash
  systemctl list-dependencies [target]
  systemctl list-dependencies sysinit.target
  ```

- Some more `systemctl` options utilities:

```bash
systemctl list-jobs --all
systemctl list-sockets --all
systemctl list-timers --all
```

- The function `splitPath` is using only for current user profile, to see all system path, using:

```bash
systemd-path
```

3. List of `Escape Sequence`:

```
+===================================================================+
| Escape Sequence | Unicode Character | Description                 |
+=================+===================+=============================+
|        \b       |       U+0008      | BS backspace                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \t       |       U+0009      | HT horizontal tab           |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \n       |       U+000A      | LF line feed                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \f       |       U+000C      | FF form feed                |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \r       |       U+000D      | CR carriage return          |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \"       |       U+0022      | quotation mark              |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \'       |       U+0027      | apostrophe                  |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \/       |       U+002F      | slash (solidus)             |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|        \\       |       U+005C      | backslash (reverse          |
|                 |                   | solidus)                    |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
|      \uXXXX     |       U+XXXX      | unicode character           |
+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------------------+
```

4. Process management:

- All of these signal process interaction command can be found in:

```bash
$ man 7 signal

Sending a signal
  The following system calls and library functions allow the caller to send a signal:

  raise(3)          Sends a signal to the calling thread.
  kill(2)           Sends a signal to a specified process, to all members of a specified process group, or to all processes on the system.
  killpg(2)         Sends a signal to all of the members of a specified process group.
  pthread_kill(3)   Sends a signal to a specified POSIX thread in the same process as the caller.
  tgkill(2)         Sends a signal to a specified thread within a specific process.  (This is the system call used to implement pthread_kill(3).)
  sigqueue(3)       Sends a real-time signal with accompanying data to a specified process.
```

- `ps` report snapshot of the current processes:

```bash
ps -aux
ps -ax -o %U%p%n%c
```

- `netstat`:

```bash
netstat -tulpn | grep :22
```

  > + -t - Show TCP ports.
  > + -u - Show UDP ports.
  > + -n - Show numerical addresses instead of resolving hosts.
  > + -l - Show only listening ports.
  > + -p - Show the PID and name of the listener’s process. This information is shown only if you run the command as root or sudo user.

- Check connection to specific IP in Powershell:

```pwsh
telnet <IPv4> <Port>
tnc <Private IP> -port <Port number>
```
