08162022.md, before:

1. `xargs`: using `stdout` as `stdin` for command not allowed stream input.

- Exp1: copy all the files with same extension to destination directory.

  - NOTE: `cp -t` specify destination folder for the `copy` command.

```bash
find ~/Downloads/ -name "*.jpg" | xargs cp -t .
```

- Exp2: measure each directory from output of the `ls` command.

  - NOTE: `ls -1` list one file per line.

```bash
ls -1 | xargs du -sh
```

- Exp3: search through `man` pages.

```bash
man -k <KEYWORD>
```

- Exp4: some commands utility (Clear the option by using: `manopt id -G`).

```bash
info coreutils "ls invocation"
groups
id -Gn
ls -gloRF --dired tmp
```

2. Learning Linux from scratch (again): `Linux for Beginners` book.

- Prompt: display the common format `username@servername`, and will determine the user is using the system as `normal user ($)` or a `super user (#)`.

- `Superuser` on a Linux system also calles as `root` -> `sudo` ~ `SuperUser Do`: grant specific users root privileges for specific cases.

- `~` := `tilde` is a shorthand way of representing the home directory for the current user.

- `Linux Directory Structure/Layout`:

  - Common Directories: `man hier` ~ description of the file system hierarchy.

    - NOTE: `*` := asterisk means that the directories was mentioned that can be easily skim over.

  | Dir          | Description                                                                                                         |
  | :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
  | /            | "Root" directory, the starting point of the file system hierarchy. NOTE: not related to the root/superuser account. |
  | /bin         | Binaries and other executable programs.                                                                             |
  | /dev\*       | Device files, typically controlled by the operating system and the system administrator.                            |
  | /etc         | System configuration files.                                                                                         |
  | /home        | Home directories.                                                                                                   |
  | /opt         | Optional or third-party softwares.                                                                                  |
  | /proc\*      | Provides information about running processes.                                                                       |
  | /sbin\*      | System administrator binaries.                                                                                      |
  | /selinux\*   | Used to display information about SELinux.                                                                          |
  | /srv\*       | Contains data which is served by the system.                                                                        |
  | /srv/www\*   | Web server files.                                                                                                   |
  | /srv/ftp\*   | FTP files.                                                                                                          |
  | /sys\*       | Used to display, sometimes configure the devices and buses known to the Linux kernel.                               |
  | /tmp         | Temporary space, typically cleared on reboot.                                                                       |
  | /usr         | User related programs.                                                                                              |
  | /usr/bin\*   | Binaries and executable programs.                                                                                   |
  | /usr/lib\*   | Libraries.                                                                                                          |
  | /usr/local\* | Locally installed software that is not part of the base operating system.                                           |
  | /usr/sbin\*  | System administration binaries.                                                                                     |
  | /var         | Variable data, most notably log files.                                                                              |
  | /var/log\*   | Log files.                                                                                                          |

  - Application Directory Structure: `appname: [/bin, /etc, /lib, /logs]`

- Listing files by Type:

  - A `link`: is sometimes called as a `symlink`, short for symbolic link. A link points to the location of the actual file a directory.
  - `Symbolic links`: can be used to create shortcuts to long directory names. Another common use is to have a symlink to the latest version of installed software.
  - NOTE: you can operate on the link as if it were the actual file or directoy.

  ```bash
  ls -F
  ls -R
  ```

  - `ls` options demystify:

    - `-r`: display list files in reverse datetime order.
    - `-R`: display recursively.
    - `-F`: option will append a character to the file name that reveals what type it is.

    | Symbol | Meaning                                                               |
    | :----: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    |   /    | Directory                                                             |
    |   @    | Link. The file that follows the `->` symbol is the target of the link |
    |   \*   | Executable program                                                    |

- Default Permissions and the File Creation Mask:

  - Definition: The file creation mask is what determines the permission attach simultaneously with the new born file. The mask restricts or mask permissions, thus determining the ultimate permission for a file or directory will be given.

  - Syntax:

  ```bash
  umask [-S] [mode] <file/dir>
  umask -S 0027 ~/tmp
  ```

  - Explanation:

    - `-S`: set the mode with the symbolic notation (exp: `u=rwx,g=rx,o=`).
    - `[mode]`: identical with the octal/numeric based permission in `chmod` command.
    - Default mode that will apply to all of the newly created file inside the `~/tmp` directory will be:

    |                     | Dir  | File |
    | :------------------ | :--: | :--: |
    | Base Permission     | 777  | 666  |
    | Minus Umask         | -027 | -027 |
    | Creation Permission | 750  | 640  |

- Special modes:

  - Look at this example: there's an extra leading `0`, last 3 characters represent permissions for `user, group, other`.
  - The first numeric represents for the class of special modes := `{ setuid, setgid, sticky }`. (\[Un\]Set `sticky` mode to a directory)
  - NOTE: (`umask 0022` === `umask 022`) && (`chmod 0644` === `chmod 644`).

  | Special Mode      | Description                                                                                               |
  | :---------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | setuid permission | Allows a process to run as the owner of the file.                                                         |
  | setgid permission | Allows a process to run with the group of the file, not with the group user use to execute it.            |
  | sticky bit        | Prevents a user from deleting another user's files even if they would normally have permissions to do so. |

  ```bash
  $ umask
  0027

  $ chmod u+t,o-t ~/tmp
  drwxrw-rw- 3 usr usr 4096 Aug 16 17:00 tmp/
  ```

- Finding files:

  - `find`: an equivalent to a search toolbox in Linux system. Let's jump right into an example to analyze each molecule/atom/iota of this command:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  find . -newer <file> - [Finds files that are newer than the given file.]
  ```

  ```bash
  find ./tmp/ -name "*txt" -size -100k -mtime +10 -exec grep -nrH [[:digit:]]* {} \;
               |            |           |          |--------------------------------> `-exec <command> {} \;`    := executes this command against all the files that are found.
               |            |           |-------------------------------------------> `-mtime <num_days>`        := constrains the results by the order of time (+/-: more/less than <num_days> old).
               |            |-------------------------------------------------------> `-size <num>[c/k/M/G]`     := constrains the results by the file size limitation (+/-: more/less than <num> size).
               |--------------------------------------------------------------------> `-name/-iname "<pattern>"` := displays file whose name matches the pattern, case-sensitive or insensitive.
  ```

  - `locate`: find file by name. If you know a file's name or at least part of its name, the main purpose is retrieve the location where it resides.
    The `locate` command can half recognize the pattern and return the list of all absolute paths of files that its name was matched the pattern.

  ```bash
  locate *.sh
  ```

  - [The "/etc/passwd" file](http://www.linfo.org/etc_passwd.html) : a text file that contains the _attributes_ (basic information about) each user/account on a computer running Linux/Unix-like operating system.

    - Each line in `/etc/passwd` represents a single user/account:

    > - The first line: listed `root/administrator` account, which has complete power over every aspect of the system.
    > - The last lines: represents real people who are use the system.

    - Each line contains 7 attributes/fields: `[ name, password, userID, groupID, gecos, home-directory, shell ]`, each field is separated from the adjacent by the colons (`:`) with no spaces. If there is no data for an attribute, there is no space, but, rather, 2 consecutive colons.

    | Attribute/Field | Description                                                                                                                                                                      |
    | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | name            | The user's `login name`, each such name must be an unique string.                                                                                                                |
    | password        | Contains excrypted login passwords, for security reason, the real passwords now storing in `/etc/shadow` that cannot be read by ordinary user.                                   |
    |                 | If the field contains the letter (x) indicates that the system required a password for authenticate this user.                                                                   |
    | userID          | User's unique numeric identification number, which is used by the system for access control.                                                                                     |
    |                 | `Zero` is reserved for `root` account.                                                                                                                                           |
    |                 | `1 -> 99` are reserved for other predefined accounts.                                                                                                                            |
    |                 | `100 -> 999` are available for ordinary users and groups.                                                                                                                        |
    | groupID         | Specifies the user's principal group identification number. This is usually the same as the user ID.                                                                             |
    | gecos           | Acronym for `General Electric Comprehensive Operating System`, contains general information about the user that is not needed by the system, most commonly the user's real name. |
    |                 | Alternatively, it can contain multiple entries, each separated by a comma.                                                                                                       |
    | home-directory  | The full path (i.e., the location relative to the root directory) of the user's home directory.                                                                                  |
    |                 | This is the directory that the user is first in when logging into the system and which contains programs and configuration files specific to that user.                          |
    | shell           | The full path of the default shell for the user.                                                                                                                                 |
    |                 | A shell is a program that provides a text-only user interface and whose main purpose is to execute commands typed in by a user and display the results.                          |
    |                 | The default shell on Linux is bash, whose absolute path is /bin/bash.                                                                                                            |

- Comparing files:

  ```bash
  diff <file1> <file2> - [Compare two files.]
  sdiff <file1> <file2> - [Compare two files side by side.]
  vimdiff <file1> <file2> - [Highlight the differences between two files in the vim editor.]
  ```

- Searching in files:

  - Searching for Text in Ascii files:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  grep -v <pattern> <file> - [Invert match, return lines not match the pattern.]
  grep -i <pattern> <file> - [Perform searching pattern ignoring case.]
  grep -c <pattern> <file> - [Count the number of occurences in a file.]
  grep -n <pattern> <file> - [Precede output with numbers of line that contains the pattern.]
  ```

  - Search for Text in Binary files:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  strings <file> | grep <pattern> - [`strings`: Display printable strings in binary files.]
  ```

  - Examples:

  ```bash
  man ulimit | grep -E -C 8 "^[[:blank:]]*ulimit"

  <!-- Search for `Input Record Separator`. -->
  man awk | col -b | grep -iE "\brs\b" -C 1

  cat /etc/passwd | grep user | cut -d: -f1,3,6 | sed 's/:/ /g'

  ps aux | awk '{ print $2, $11 }' OFS='\t' | grep -i java
  ```

- Pipe:

  - Definition: The pipe (`|`) means take the `standard output` from the `preceding command` and `pass` it as the `standard input` to the `following command`.
  - Canonically, you will notice that 2 commands have been chained together with a vertical bar (`|`).

  - Exp:

  ```bash
  cat /etc/passwd | grep <user> | cut -d: -f1,6,7 | sed 's/:/ /g'
                                       |   |----------------------> `-f <N>`     := displays the `Nth` field.
                                       |--------------------------> `-d <delim>` := uses delimiter as the field separator.
  ```

- Sorting data: in the simplest form, `sort` sorts lines of text alphabetically.

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  sort file - [Sort text in file.]
  sort -k F file - [Sort by key. The `F` following `-k` is the field number.]
  sort -r file - [Sort in reverse order.]
  sort -u file - [Sort text in file, removing duplicate lines.]
  ```

- Creating a Collection of files:

  - Definition: bundle a group of files/directories together in an archive.

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  tar [-] c|x|t f <tarfile> [pattern] - [Create, extract or list contents of a `tar` archive using pattern, if supplied.]

  c - Create a tar archive.
  x - Extract files from the archive.
  t - Display the table of contents (list).
  v - Causes tar to be verbose.
  f <file> - The tar archive file to perform operations against.
  z - List contents of a compressed archive.
  ```

  - Exp:

  ```bash
  <!-- Create a new tar archive. -->
  $ tar zcf something.tgz *.txt

  <!-- Create a new tar archive in verbose mode. -->
  $ tar zcvf something.tgz *.txt
  a.txt
  bash_grammar.txt
  notes.txt

  <!-- List contents of an archive. -->
  $ tar ztf something.tgz
  a.txt
  bash_grammar.txt
  notes.txt
  ```

- Compressing files to save space: `gzip`, `gunzip`.

  - Syntax and convention of compressing files process:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  gzip file - [Compress file. The resulting compressed file is named file.gz.]
  gunzip file - [Uncompress files.]
  gzcat / zcat - [Concatenates and prints compressed files.]

  Use the command `du` to display how much space is used by a file:
  du - [Estimates file usage.]
  du -k - [Display sizes in Kilobytes.]
  du -h - [Display sizes in human readable format. For example, 1.2M, 3.7G, etc.]
  ```

  - Examples:

  1. When run across an older version of `tar` without `gzip` compression built-in -> can use pipes to create compressed archive:

  ```bash
  tar cf - *.txt | gzip > test.tgz
  ```

- Redirection:

  - Common:

  | I/O Name        | Abbreviation File | Descriptor Number |
  | :-------------- | :---------------- | :---------------: |
  | standard input  | stdin             |         0         |
  | standard output | stdout            |         1         |
  | standard error  | stderr            |         2         |

  > - \> - Redirects standard output to a file, overwriting (truncating) any existing contents of the file. If no file exists, it creates one.
  > - \>\> - Redirects standard output to a file and appends to any existing contents. If no file exists, it creates one.
  > - \< - Redirects input from a file to the command preceding the less-than sign.

  - Standard Error Redirection:

  | Operation   | Description                                                                                  |
  | :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | &           | Used with redirection to signal that a file descriptor is being used instead of a file name. |
  | 2>&1        | Combine standard error and standard output.                                                  |
  | 2> \<file\> | Redirect standard error to a file.                                                           |

- Resources: (NOTE: options/values inside square brackets `[`, `]` is optional.)

  - [Permanently export environment variable Linux](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13046624/how-to-permanently-export-a-variable-in-linux)

Commit message:

doc: `find` command's regex, logical opts clarification

08162022.md, after:

1. `xargs`: using `stdout` as `stdin` for command not allowed stream input.

- Exp1: copy all the files with same extension to destination directory.

  - NOTE: `cp -t` specify destination folder for the `copy` command.

```bash
find ~/Downloads/ -name "*.jpg" | xargs cp -t .
```

- Exp2: measure each directory from output of the `ls` command.

  - NOTE: `ls -1` list one file per line.

```bash
ls -1 | xargs du -sh
```

- Exp3: search through `man` pages.

```bash
man -k <KEYWORD>
```

- Exp4: some commands utility (Clear the option by using: `manopt id -G`).

```bash
info coreutils "ls invocation"
groups
id -Gn
ls -gloRF --dired tmp
```

2. Learning Linux from scratch (again): `Linux for Beginners` book.

- Prompt: display the common format `username@servername`, and will determine the user is using the system as `normal user ($)` or a `super user (#)`.

- `Superuser` on a Linux system also calles as `root` -> `sudo` ~ `SuperUser Do`: grant specific users root privileges for specific cases.

- `~` := `tilde` is a shorthand way of representing the home directory for the current user.

- `Linux Directory Structure/Layout`:

  - Common Directories: `man hier` ~ description of the file system hierarchy.

    - NOTE: `*` := asterisk means that the directories was mentioned that can be easily skim over.

  | Dir          | Description                                                                                                         |
  | :----------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
  | /            | "Root" directory, the starting point of the file system hierarchy. NOTE: not related to the root/superuser account. |
  | /bin         | Binaries and other executable programs.                                                                             |
  | /dev\*       | Device files, typically controlled by the operating system and the system administrator.                            |
  | /etc         | System configuration files.                                                                                         |
  | /home        | Home directories.                                                                                                   |
  | /opt         | Optional or third-party softwares.                                                                                  |
  | /proc\*      | Provides information about running processes.                                                                       |
  | /sbin\*      | System administrator binaries.                                                                                      |
  | /selinux\*   | Used to display information about SELinux.                                                                          |
  | /srv\*       | Contains data which is served by the system.                                                                        |
  | /srv/www\*   | Web server files.                                                                                                   |
  | /srv/ftp\*   | FTP files.                                                                                                          |
  | /sys\*       | Used to display, sometimes configure the devices and buses known to the Linux kernel.                               |
  | /tmp         | Temporary space, typically cleared on reboot.                                                                       |
  | /usr         | User related programs.                                                                                              |
  | /usr/bin\*   | Binaries and executable programs.                                                                                   |
  | /usr/lib\*   | Libraries.                                                                                                          |
  | /usr/local\* | Locally installed software that is not part of the base operating system.                                           |
  | /usr/sbin\*  | System administration binaries.                                                                                     |
  | /var         | Variable data, most notably log files.                                                                              |
  | /var/log\*   | Log files.                                                                                                          |

  - Application Directory Structure: `appname: [/bin, /etc, /lib, /logs]`

- Listing files by Type:

  - A `link`: is sometimes called as a `symlink`, short for symbolic link. A link points to the location of the actual file a directory.
  - `Symbolic links`: can be used to create shortcuts to long directory names. Another common use is to have a symlink to the latest version of installed software.
  - NOTE: you can operate on the link as if it were the actual file or directoy.

  ```bash
  ls -F
  ls -R
  ```

  - `ls` options demystify:

    - `-r`: display list files in reverse datetime order.
    - `-R`: display recursively.
    - `-F`: option will append a character to the file name that reveals what type it is.

    | Symbol | Meaning                                                               |
    | :----: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    |   /    | Directory                                                             |
    |   @    | Link. The file that follows the `->` symbol is the target of the link |
    |   \*   | Executable program                                                    |

- Default Permissions and the File Creation Mask:

  - Definition: The file creation mask is what determines the permission attach simultaneously with the new born file. The mask restricts or mask permissions, thus determining the ultimate permission for a file or directory will be given.

  - Syntax:

  ```bash
  umask [-S] [mode] <file/dir>
  umask -S 0027 ~/tmp
  ```

  - Explanation:

    - `-S`: set the mode with the symbolic notation (exp: `u=rwx,g=rx,o=`).
    - `[mode]`: identical with the octal/numeric based permission in `chmod` command.
    - Default mode that will apply to all of the newly created file inside the `~/tmp` directory will be:

    |                     | Dir  | File |
    | :------------------ | :--: | :--: |
    | Base Permission     | 777  | 666  |
    | Minus Umask         | -027 | -027 |
    | Creation Permission | 750  | 640  |

- Special modes:

  - Look at this example: there's an extra leading `0`, last 3 characters represent permissions for `user, group, other`.
  - The first numeric represents for the class of special modes := `{ setuid, setgid, sticky }`. (\[Un\]Set `sticky` mode to a directory)
  - NOTE: (`umask 0022` === `umask 022`) && (`chmod 0644` === `chmod 644`).

  | Special Mode      | Description                                                                                               |
  | :---------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | setuid permission | Allows a process to run as the owner of the file.                                                         |
  | setgid permission | Allows a process to run with the group of the file, not with the group user use to execute it.            |
  | sticky bit        | Prevents a user from deleting another user's files even if they would normally have permissions to do so. |

  ```bash
  $ umask
  0027

  $ chmod u+t,o-t ~/tmp
  drwxrw-rw- 3 usr usr 4096 Aug 16 17:00 tmp/
  ```

- Finding files:

  - `find`: an equivalent to a search toolbox in Linux system. Let's jump right into an example to analyze each molecule/atom/iota of this command:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  find . -newer <file> - [Finds files that are newer than the given file.]
  ```

  ```bash
  find ./tmp/ -name "*txt" -size -100k -mtime +10 -exec grep -nrH [[:digit:]]* {} \;
               |            |           |          |--------------------------------> `-exec <command> {} \;`    := executes this command against all the files that are found.
               |            |           |-------------------------------------------> `-mtime <num_days>`        := constrains the results by the order of time (+/-: more/less than <num_days> old).
               |            |-------------------------------------------------------> `-size <num>[c/k/M/G]`     := constrains the results by the file size limitation (+/-: more/less than <num> size).
               |--------------------------------------------------------------------> `-name/-iname "<pattern>"` := displays file whose name matches the pattern, case-sensitive or insensitive.
  ```

  ```bash
  find . -type d -a -regextype "egrep" -regex ".*tmp.*"
  find . -type f -a -regextype "egrep" -regex ".*tmp.*"
          |       |  |                  |---------------> `-regex <pattern>` := search for file name that matched the regex pattern, note that this is match on the "whole path", not a partial recognition.
          |       |  |----------------------------------> `-regextype [posix-awk | posix-basic | posix-egrep | posix-extended]` := changes the regex syntax understood by `-regex/-iregex` tests later on.
          |       |--------------------------------------> `-type <OS_supported>` :=  POSIX specifies `b`, `c`, `d`, `l`, `p`, `f` and `s`.
          |---------------------------------------------> `-a/-o` := Operator join together the other items within the expression `-o ~ logical OR`, `-a ~ logical AND`.
  ```

  - `locate`: find file by name. If you know a file's name or at least part of its name, the main purpose is retrieve the location where it resides.
    The `locate` command can half recognize the pattern and return the list of all absolute paths of files that its name was matched the pattern.

  ```bash
  locate *.sh
  ```

  - [The "/etc/passwd" file](http://www.linfo.org/etc_passwd.html) : a text file that contains the _attributes_ (basic information about) each user/account on a computer running Linux/Unix-like operating system.

    - Each line in `/etc/passwd` represents a single user/account:

    > - The first line: listed `root/administrator` account, which has complete power over every aspect of the system.
    > - The last lines: represents real people who are use the system.

    - Each line contains 7 attributes/fields: `[ name, password, userID, groupID, gecos, home-directory, shell ]`, each field is separated from the adjacent by the colons (`:`) with no spaces. If there is no data for an attribute, there is no space, but, rather, 2 consecutive colons.

    | Attribute/Field | Description                                                                                                                                                                      |
    | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | name            | The user's `login name`, each such name must be an unique string.                                                                                                                |
    | password        | Contains excrypted login passwords, for security reason, the real passwords now storing in `/etc/shadow` that cannot be read by ordinary user.                                   |
    |                 | If the field contains the letter (x) indicates that the system required a password for authenticate this user.                                                                   |
    | userID          | User's unique numeric identification number, which is used by the system for access control.                                                                                     |
    |                 | `Zero` is reserved for `root` account.                                                                                                                                           |
    |                 | `1 -> 99` are reserved for other predefined accounts.                                                                                                                            |
    |                 | `100 -> 999` are available for ordinary users and groups.                                                                                                                        |
    | groupID         | Specifies the user's principal group identification number. This is usually the same as the user ID.                                                                             |
    | gecos           | Acronym for `General Electric Comprehensive Operating System`, contains general information about the user that is not needed by the system, most commonly the user's real name. |
    |                 | Alternatively, it can contain multiple entries, each separated by a comma.                                                                                                       |
    | home-directory  | The full path (i.e., the location relative to the root directory) of the user's home directory.                                                                                  |
    |                 | This is the directory that the user is first in when logging into the system and which contains programs and configuration files specific to that user.                          |
    | shell           | The full path of the default shell for the user.                                                                                                                                 |
    |                 | A shell is a program that provides a text-only user interface and whose main purpose is to execute commands typed in by a user and display the results.                          |
    |                 | The default shell on Linux is bash, whose absolute path is /bin/bash.                                                                                                            |

- Comparing files:

  ```bash
  diff <file1> <file2> - [Compare two files.]
  sdiff <file1> <file2> - [Compare two files side by side.]
  vimdiff <file1> <file2> - [Highlight the differences between two files in the vim editor.]
  ```

- Searching in files:

  - Searching for Text in Ascii files:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  grep -v <pattern> <file> - [Invert match, return lines not match the pattern.]
  grep -i <pattern> <file> - [Perform searching pattern ignoring case.]
  grep -c <pattern> <file> - [Count the number of occurences in a file.]
  grep -n <pattern> <file> - [Precede output with numbers of line that contains the pattern.]
  ```

  - Search for Text in Binary files:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  strings <file> | grep <pattern> - [`strings`: Display printable strings in binary files.]
  ```

  - Examples:

  ```bash
  man ulimit | grep -E -C 8 "^[[:blank:]]*ulimit"

  <!-- Search for `Input Record Separator`. -->
  man awk | col -b | grep -iE "\brs\b" -C 1

  cat /etc/passwd | grep user | cut -d: -f1,3,6 | sed 's/:/ /g'

  ps aux | awk '{ print $2, $11 }' OFS='\t' | grep -i java
  ```

- Pipe:

  - Definition: The pipe (`|`) means take the `standard output` from the `preceding command` and `pass` it as the `standard input` to the `following command`.
  - Canonically, you will notice that 2 commands have been chained together with a vertical bar (`|`).

  - Exp:

  ```bash
  cat /etc/passwd | grep <user> | cut -d: -f1,6,7 | sed 's/:/ /g'
                                       |   |----------------------> `-f <N>`     := displays the `Nth` field.
                                       |--------------------------> `-d <delim>` := uses delimiter as the field separator.
  ```

- Sorting data: in the simplest form, `sort` sorts lines of text alphabetically.

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  sort file - [Sort text in file.]
  sort -k F file - [Sort by key. The `F` following `-k` is the field number.]
  sort -r file - [Sort in reverse order.]
  sort -u file - [Sort text in file, removing duplicate lines.]
  ```

- Creating a Collection of files:

  - Definition: bundle a group of files/directories together in an archive.

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  tar [-] c|x|t f <tarfile> [pattern] - [Create, extract or list contents of a `tar` archive using pattern, if supplied.]

  c - Create a tar archive.
  x - Extract files from the archive.
  t - Display the table of contents (list).
  v - Causes tar to be verbose.
  f <file> - The tar archive file to perform operations against.
  z - List contents of a compressed archive.
  ```

  - Exp:

  ```bash
  <!-- Create a new tar archive. -->
  $ tar zcf something.tgz *.txt

  <!-- Create a new tar archive in verbose mode. -->
  $ tar zcvf something.tgz *.txt
  a.txt
  bash_grammar.txt
  notes.txt

  <!-- List contents of an archive. -->
  $ tar ztf something.tgz
  a.txt
  bash_grammar.txt
  notes.txt
  ```

- Compressing files to save space: `gzip`, `gunzip`.

  - Syntax and convention of compressing files process:

  ```bash
  [Syntax]
  gzip file - [Compress file. The resulting compressed file is named file.gz.]
  gunzip file - [Uncompress files.]
  gzcat / zcat - [Concatenates and prints compressed files.]

  Use the command `du` to display how much space is used by a file:
  du - [Estimates file usage.]
  du -k - [Display sizes in Kilobytes.]
  du -h - [Display sizes in human readable format. For example, 1.2M, 3.7G, etc.]
  ```

  - Examples:

  1. When run across an older version of `tar` without `gzip` compression built-in -> can use pipes to create compressed archive:

  ```bash
  tar cf - *.txt | gzip > test.tgz
  ```

- Redirection:

  - Common:

  | I/O Name        | Abbreviation File | Descriptor Number |
  | :-------------- | :---------------- | :---------------: |
  | standard input  | stdin             |         0         |
  | standard output | stdout            |         1         |
  | standard error  | stderr            |         2         |

  > - \> - Redirects standard output to a file, overwriting (truncating) any existing contents of the file. If no file exists, it creates one.
  > - \>\> - Redirects standard output to a file and appends to any existing contents. If no file exists, it creates one.
  > - \< - Redirects input from a file to the command preceding the less-than sign.

  - Standard Error Redirection:

  | Operation   | Description                                                                                  |
  | :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | &           | Used with redirection to signal that a file descriptor is being used instead of a file name. |
  | 2>&1        | Combine standard error and standard output.                                                  |
  | 2> \<file\> | Redirect standard error to a file.                                                           |

- Resources: (NOTE: options/values inside square brackets `[`, `]` is optional.)

  - [Permanently export environment variable Linux](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13046624/how-to-permanently-export-a-variable-in-linux)
