08172022.md, before:

1. Windows Server commands: [Microsoft Docs cmd](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/windows-commands)

- NOTE:

  - How to find the source path for the builtin executable binary/application/.dll:

  ```pwsh
  [pwsh]
  $ where.exe whoami
  C:\Windows\System32\whoami.exe
  C:\Windows\SysWOW64\whoami.exe
  ```

  ```cmd
  [cmd]
  $ where whoami
  C:\Windows\System32\whoami.exe
  C:\Windows\SysWOW64\whoami.exe
  ```

  - `.cpl`: this extension determines the `Control panel applets (items)` file type. Exp: `[ sysdm.cpl, inetcpl.cpl, Firewall.cpl, desk.cpl ]`

- `whoami`: similar with the twins in LinuxOS, used to display user, group and privileges information for the user currently logged on to the local system.
  If used without parameters/options, `whoami` will display the current domain and username.

  **[Syntax]**

  ```cmd
  whoami [/upn | /fqdn | /logonid]
  whoami {[/user] [/groups] [/priv]} [/fo <Format>] [/nh]
  whoami /all [/fo <Format>] [/nh]
  ```

  **[Parameters]**

  | Parameter | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
  | :-------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | /upn      | Displays the user name in `user principal name (UPN)` format.                                                                                                               |
  | /fqdn     | Displays the user name in `fully qualified domain name (FQDN)` format.                                                                                                      |
  | /logonid  | Displays the logon ID of the current user.                                                                                                                                  |
  | /user     | Displays the current domain and user name and the `security identifier (SID)`.                                                                                              |
  | /groups   | Displays the user groups to which the current user belongs.                                                                                                                 |
  | /claims   | Displays claims for current user, including claim name, flags, type and value                                                                                               |
  | /priv     | Displays the security `privileges` of the `current user`.                                                                                                                   |
  | /fo       | `<Format>` Specifies the output format. Valid values include:                                                                                                               |
  |           | `table`: Displays output in a table. This is the default value.                                                                                                             |
  |           | `list`: Displays output in a list.                                                                                                                                          |
  |           | `csv`: Displays output in comma-separated value (CSV) format.                                                                                                               |
  | /all      | Displays all information in the current access token, including the current user name, security identifiers (SID), privileges, and groups that the current user belongs to. |
  | /nh       | Specifies that the column header should not be displayed in the output. This is valid only for table and CSV formats.                                                       |
  | /?        | Displays help at the command prompt.                                                                                                                                        |

  **[Examples]**

  ```pwsh
  $ whoami
  <domain>\<username>

  $ whoami /user
  USER INFORMATION
  ----------------

   User Name           SID
  =================== ============================
  <domain>\<username> <Security Identifier Number>

  $ whoami /groups
  GROUP INFORMATION
  -----------------

  Group Name                                 Type             SID                                            Attributes
  ========================================== ================ ============================================== ==================================================
  Everyone                                   Well-known group S-1-1-0                                        Mandatory group, Enabled by default, Enabled group

  $ whoami /priv /fo list
  PRIVILEGES INFORMATION
  ----------------------

  Privilege Name: SeShutdownPrivilege
  Description: Shut down the system
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeChangeNotifyPrivilege
  Description: Bypass traverse checking
  State: Enabled

  Privilege Name: SeUndockPrivilege
  Description: Remove computer from docking station
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeIncreaseWorkingSetPrivilege
  Description: Increase a process working set
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeTimeZonePrivilege
  Description: Change the time zone
  State: Disabled
  ```

- `query`: [More information about query-process](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/query-process)

  **[Definition]**

  - `query process`: Displays information about processes that are running on a Remote Desktop Session Host server.
    You can use this command to find out which programs a specific user is running, and also which users are running a specific program.
    This command returns the following information:

  > - User who owns the process
  > - Session that owns the process
  > - ID of the session
  > - Name of the process
  > - ID of the process

  **[Syntax]**

  ```cmd
  query process [*|<processID>|<username>|<sessionname>|/id:<nn>|<program-name>] [/server:<servername>]
  ```

  **[Parameters]**

  | Parameter              | Description                                                                                                                                              |
  | :--------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | \*                     | Lists the processes for all sessions.                                                                                                                    |
  | \<processID\>          | Specifies the numeric ID identifying the process that you want to query.                                                                                 |
  | \<username\>           | Specifies the name of the user whose processes you want to list.                                                                                         |
  | \<sessionname\>        | Specifies the name of the active session whose processes you want to list.                                                                               |
  | /id:\<nn\>             | Specifies the ID of the session whose processes you want to list.                                                                                        |
  | \<program-name\>       | Specifies the name of the program whose processes you want to query. The .exe extension is required.                                                     |
  | /server:\<servername\> | Specifies the Remote Desktop Session Host server whose processes you want to list. If unspecified, the server where you are currently logged on is used. |
  | /?                     | Displays help at the command prompt.                                                                                                                     |

  **[Examples]**

  ```cmd
  $ query process *
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  (unknown)             services             0      0
  (unknown)             services             0      4  system
  (unknown)             services             0     56  secure system
  (unknown)             services             0    116  registry

  $ query process <username>
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  ><username>           console              1  29200  sihost.exe
  ><username>           console              1  28696  svchost.exe

  $ query process /id:88484
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  ><username>           console              1  88484  chrome.exe
  ```

2. `Vim` note:

- Search/move inline:

  - Forward: `f + <first_character_of_word>` -> search next: `;`.
  - Backward: `shift + f + <first_character_of_word>`.

- Duplicate previous action: remember action between 2 `COMMAND MODE` entries.

  - Exp: `COMMAND MODE` -> `INSERT MODE` delete 4 characters -> `COMMAND MODE` -> press `.` in any position -> reproduce: delete 4 characters.

- `COMMAND MODE` -> `VISUAL MODE` (press `v`) -> obliterate the word you want to delete -> press `c` -> will delete all the chosen characters and return to `INSERT MODE`.

- Replace inline: `VISUAL MODE` -> press `:` -> `:'<,'>s/<word>/<replace>/ic` (`i`: inline, `c`: confirm).

- Table of some common actions:

  | Action         | Shortcut      | Description                                                         |
  | :------------- | :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------ |
  | _[Delete]_     | x             | Delete a character.                                                 |
  |                | dw            | Delete a word.                                                      |
  |                | d5w           | Delete 5 words.                                                     |
  |                | dd            | Delete a line.                                                      |
  |                | 3dd           | Delete 3 lines                                                      |
  |                | D             | Delete from the current position to the end of the line.            |
  | _[Changing]_   | r             | Replace current character.                                          |
  |                | cw            | Change the current word.                                            |
  |                | cc            | Change the current line.                                            |
  |                | c$            | Change the text from the current position to the end of the line.   |
  |                | C             | Same as `c$`.                                                       |
  |                | ~             | Reverse case of the obliteration character.                         |
  | _[Copy/Paste]_ | yy            | Yank (copy) the current line.                                       |
  |                | y\<position\> | Yank the position. Exp: `yw` := yank a word, `y3w` := yank 3 words. |
  |                | p             | Paste the most recent deleted or yanked text.                       |
  | _[Undo/Redo]_  | u             | Undo.                                                               |
  |                | Ctrl + r      | Redo.                                                               |
  | _[Searching]_  | /\<pattern\>  | Start forward search for the \<pattern\>.                           |
  |                | ?\<pattern\>  | Start reverse search for the \<pattern\>.                           |

- NOTE: [Indent multiple lines in Vim](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/235839/indent-multiple-lines-quickly-in-vi)

Commit message:

doc: Update some Vim's basic movements

08172022.md, after:

1. Windows Server commands: [Microsoft Docs cmd](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/windows-commands)

- NOTE:

  - How to find the source path for the builtin executable binary/application/.dll:

  ```pwsh
  [pwsh]
  $ where.exe whoami
  C:\Windows\System32\whoami.exe
  C:\Windows\SysWOW64\whoami.exe
  ```

  ```cmd
  [cmd]
  $ where whoami
  C:\Windows\System32\whoami.exe
  C:\Windows\SysWOW64\whoami.exe
  ```

  - `.cpl`: this extension determines the `Control panel applets (items)` file type. Exp: `[ sysdm.cpl, inetcpl.cpl, Firewall.cpl, desk.cpl ]`

- `whoami`: similar with the twins in LinuxOS, used to display user, group and privileges information for the user currently logged on to the local system.
  If used without parameters/options, `whoami` will display the current domain and username.

  **[Syntax]**

  ```cmd
  whoami [/upn | /fqdn | /logonid]
  whoami {[/user] [/groups] [/priv]} [/fo <Format>] [/nh]
  whoami /all [/fo <Format>] [/nh]
  ```

  **[Parameters]**

  | Parameter | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
  | :-------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | /upn      | Displays the user name in `user principal name (UPN)` format.                                                                                                               |
  | /fqdn     | Displays the user name in `fully qualified domain name (FQDN)` format.                                                                                                      |
  | /logonid  | Displays the logon ID of the current user.                                                                                                                                  |
  | /user     | Displays the current domain and user name and the `security identifier (SID)`.                                                                                              |
  | /groups   | Displays the user groups to which the current user belongs.                                                                                                                 |
  | /claims   | Displays claims for current user, including claim name, flags, type and value                                                                                               |
  | /priv     | Displays the security `privileges` of the `current user`.                                                                                                                   |
  | /fo       | `<Format>` Specifies the output format. Valid values include:                                                                                                               |
  |           | `table`: Displays output in a table. This is the default value.                                                                                                             |
  |           | `list`: Displays output in a list.                                                                                                                                          |
  |           | `csv`: Displays output in comma-separated value (CSV) format.                                                                                                               |
  | /all      | Displays all information in the current access token, including the current user name, security identifiers (SID), privileges, and groups that the current user belongs to. |
  | /nh       | Specifies that the column header should not be displayed in the output. This is valid only for table and CSV formats.                                                       |
  | /?        | Displays help at the command prompt.                                                                                                                                        |

  **[Examples]**

  ```pwsh
  $ whoami
  <domain>\<username>

  $ whoami /user
  USER INFORMATION
  ----------------

   User Name           SID
  =================== ============================
  <domain>\<username> <Security Identifier Number>

  $ whoami /groups
  GROUP INFORMATION
  -----------------

  Group Name                                 Type             SID                                            Attributes
  ========================================== ================ ============================================== ==================================================
  Everyone                                   Well-known group S-1-1-0                                        Mandatory group, Enabled by default, Enabled group

  $ whoami /priv /fo list
  PRIVILEGES INFORMATION
  ----------------------

  Privilege Name: SeShutdownPrivilege
  Description: Shut down the system
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeChangeNotifyPrivilege
  Description: Bypass traverse checking
  State: Enabled

  Privilege Name: SeUndockPrivilege
  Description: Remove computer from docking station
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeIncreaseWorkingSetPrivilege
  Description: Increase a process working set
  State: Disabled

  Privilege Name: SeTimeZonePrivilege
  Description: Change the time zone
  State: Disabled
  ```

- `query`: [More information about query-process](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/query-process)

  **[Definition]**

  - `query process`: Displays information about processes that are running on a Remote Desktop Session Host server.
    You can use this command to find out which programs a specific user is running, and also which users are running a specific program.
    This command returns the following information:

  > - User who owns the process
  > - Session that owns the process
  > - ID of the session
  > - Name of the process
  > - ID of the process

  **[Syntax]**

  ```cmd
  query process [*|<processID>|<username>|<sessionname>|/id:<nn>|<program-name>] [/server:<servername>]
  ```

  **[Parameters]**

  | Parameter              | Description                                                                                                                                              |
  | :--------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | \*                     | Lists the processes for all sessions.                                                                                                                    |
  | \<processID\>          | Specifies the numeric ID identifying the process that you want to query.                                                                                 |
  | \<username\>           | Specifies the name of the user whose processes you want to list.                                                                                         |
  | \<sessionname\>        | Specifies the name of the active session whose processes you want to list.                                                                               |
  | /id:\<nn\>             | Specifies the ID of the session whose processes you want to list.                                                                                        |
  | \<program-name\>       | Specifies the name of the program whose processes you want to query. The .exe extension is required.                                                     |
  | /server:\<servername\> | Specifies the Remote Desktop Session Host server whose processes you want to list. If unspecified, the server where you are currently logged on is used. |
  | /?                     | Displays help at the command prompt.                                                                                                                     |

  **[Examples]**

  ```cmd
  $ query process *
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  (unknown)             services             0      0
  (unknown)             services             0      4  system
  (unknown)             services             0     56  secure system
  (unknown)             services             0    116  registry

  $ query process <username>
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  ><username>           console              1  29200  sihost.exe
  ><username>           console              1  28696  svchost.exe

  $ query process /id:88484
  USERNAME              SESSIONNAME         ID    PID  IMAGE
  ><username>           console              1  88484  chrome.exe
  ```

2. `Vim` note:

- Search/move inline:

  - Forward: `f + <first_character_of_word>` -> search next: `;`.
  - Backward: `shift + f + <first_character_of_word>`.

- Duplicate previous action: remember action between 2 `COMMAND MODE` entries.

  - Exp: `COMMAND MODE` -> `INSERT MODE` delete 4 characters -> `COMMAND MODE` -> press `.` in any position -> reproduce: delete 4 characters.

- `COMMAND MODE` -> `VISUAL MODE` (press `v`) -> obliterate the word you want to delete -> press `c` -> will delete all the chosen characters and return to `INSERT MODE`.

- Replace inline: `VISUAL MODE` -> press `:` -> `:'<,'>s/<word>/<replace>/ic` (`i`: inline, `c`: confirm).

- Copy one (or multiple) line(s) to clipboard: `COMMAND MODE` -> `<start>,<end>y *` -> `p` to paste to wherever as you want to.

- Table of some common motions/actions:

  | Action         | Shortcut      | Description                                                         |
  | :------------- | :------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------ |
  | _[Delete]_     | x             | Delete a character.                                                 |
  |                | dw            | Delete a word.                                                      |
  |                | d5w           | Delete 5 words.                                                     |
  |                | dd            | Delete a line.                                                      |
  |                | 3dd           | Delete 3 lines                                                      |
  |                | D             | Delete from the current position to the end of the line.            |
  | _[Changing]_   | r             | Replace current character.                                          |
  |                | cw            | Change the current word.                                            |
  |                | cc            | Change the current line.                                            |
  |                | c$            | Change the text from the current position to the end of the line.   |
  |                | C             | Same as `c$`.                                                       |
  |                | ~             | Reverse case of the obliteration character.                         |
  | _[Copy/Paste]_ | yy            | Yank (copy) the current line.                                       |
  |                | y\<position\> | Yank the position. Exp: `yw` := yank a word, `y3w` := yank 3 words. |
  |                | p             | Paste the most recent deleted or yanked text.                       |
  | _[Undo/Redo]_  | u             | Undo.                                                               |
  |                | Ctrl + r      | Redo.                                                               |
  | _[Searching]_  | /\<pattern\>  | Start forward search for the \<pattern\>.                           |
  |                | ?\<pattern\>  | Start reverse search for the \<pattern\>.                           |
  | _[Moving]_     | `\'.`         | Jump to last modification line.                                     |
  |                | `\`.`         | Jump to exact spot that was recorded the latest patches.            |
  |                | Ctrl + o      | Retrace your movements in file in backwards.                        |
  |                | Ctrl + i      | Retrace your movements in file in forwards.                         |
  |                | gt            | Similar to `tabn/tabnext`.                                          |
  |                | gT            | Similar to `tabp/tabprevious`.                                      |

- NOTE: [Indent multiple lines in Vim](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/235839/indent-multiple-lines-quickly-in-vi)
